take this on with Ibrahim fat he's an
associate professor of conflict
resolution at the Doha Institute for
Graduate Studies welcome Ibrahim I
wonder if we could just dig into the
story of Janine a little bit I mean
you're from Janine yourself um because
the people who are there are descendants
of those Palestinians evicted from their
homes back in 1948 right so tell us
about Janina and and why Israel feels a
need to Target it yeah thank you uh
first of all it's the story of uh the
Janine refugee camp uh which has about
uh 13,000 people living in a very small
area that they come actually from the
area of 1948 that was occupied in 1948
many of them are come from the city of
haa that we know today and they've been
living in this refugee camp since 1948
and uh nothing has uh changed over the
past U years uh and they've been living
um in disastrous situations in this kind
of a refugee camp in the area of Janine
now uh Janine refugee camp has been uh
targeted many times in the past decades
by the Israeli Army uh for more than one
reason one is that it's the issue uh and
the cause of uh a refugee camp which
reminds them of the the issue of U being
Palestinians displaced from their
communities from their areas from their
homes where they used to live in 1948
and this is something that uh keeps the
cause of the right of return alive which
is something that the Israeli government
government want wants to bury that they
don't want to hear about uh that people
were displaced from their homes and
under international law they have the
right to return to their hom so it's
very important for them is to Target
these refugee camps and it's not only
engine by the way in toim as well they
were targeting n shs refugee camp right
it's across across the area isn't it the
occupied West Bank but from Israel's P
perspective what will they feel they
have achieved by doing what they have
done now they've pulled out of Janine in
this particular attack basically uh this
is not the first time where they target
Janine because in 2002 we had a similar
um attack on refugee camp where um
hundreds of Palestinians were buried
under the rebble of the attack led by
Shaul muas at the time the head of the
Israeli Army Army um in in Refugee in
Jan refugee camp so today uh they wants
to the Israeli government wants to send
a message that no one is immune the
entire Palestinian people are a Target
and uh that they're going that it's not
only happening in Gaza it's also
happening in the West Bank which goes to
the larger vision and larger objectives
of the Israeli government of to
depopulate these areas from their own on
citizens and uh to control to be in
control um of the uh of the West Bank
the West Bank there has been uh
resistance armed resistance in many
places so it the Israeli Army wants to
send a message that we're here we have
the upper hand we're able to access to
these areas that these areas by the way
that they shouldn't be there according
to the oso Accord because this is the
responsibility of the Palestinian
Authority exactly so it undermined the
presence the strength and the control of
the Palestinian Authority in these areas
and became less effective and irrelevant
actually to the security situation right
and the Israeli Army acts with impunity
and we're now seeing these reports of
this US citizen who's been killed who
was shot in the head during the protest
anti setler protest thank you uh two
major points here to remember one is
that uh there is a collective punishment
that the Israeli government is sending
and we seen this on camera of destroying
the infrastructure um the streets and
the water supplies and even the closest
allies of Israel like the German foreign
minister said uh commented on this
saying that self-defense doesn't mean
destruction of infrastructure engine or
the Water Supplies of that so so it's
clear even to the closest Protectors of
the Israeli government uh the German for
Minister as for for the American
activist this is also not the first time
unfortunately we have many several
examples in the past of Peace activist
we have Rashel huri that was killed by
Israel 20 years ago that was crushed
under the Israeli buildozer and until
now Israel has not released any
investigation or pursuing of who killed
Rashel huri an American peace activist
that was again crushed under the Israeli
bulldozer we have also Shireen abaki Jen
also an American citizen so those are
American citizens in the in in the West
Bank being killed by um the Israel army
Shak the AL jaer journalist is an
American citizen and no report no
pursuing or no punishment of who killed
Shireen ab and this is just one more
case that actually puts the American
government on the line where the
American government uh always uh talking
about an American citizen of also an
Israeli held by Hamas but no mentioning
uh of the American citizens who are
killed by the Israeli government as if
they're second or third class citizens
in the United States right okay I we'll
have to leave it there but thank you for
your perspective we appreciated it
Ibrahim frad here in Jud thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al